set-up-footer (#2524)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Umbraco-StarterKit/Creating-Content/Set-Up-Footer/index.md

---
versionFrom: 8.0.0
---

# Set-up your footer

In this guide you will learn to set up a nice looking footer.

1. Go to the backoffice
2. Click you node
3. In the workspace scroll to the bottom and find the section called footer
4. In the field saying “Footer Columns” click “Add Content” this will give you 7 options of content
5. Let’s start by adding Navigation
    - Click Navigation in the list
    - Set column width to 25% as 100% would be the entire width of the page.
    - Choose a heading for your navigation list, let’s call it links for now.
    - Next got to the field called “Links” and select “Add” then a window pops out on the right -hand side.
    - Navigate to the part of the window that says “ Link to page” if this is a clean install you will have the options of Unicorn Hotel or Global Content, If you have created a page you can select that one, however, if that is not the case lets create a link to Unicorn Hotel, we do that by clicking the text, that will mark the field with a green checkmark, finalize by clicking submit.
    - Next, we get the option to select children, which is another layer of links. we won't need this for now.

>     - The final button here is "Only Render Children" this would make the node only display the child links not the main links.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The final button here is "Only Render Children" which would make the node only display links to the child pages, instead of the selected one
```

---
versionFrom: 8.0.0
---

> # Set-up your footer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to set-up your Footer
```

> It can be challenging to make a footer if you never tried it before, this guide will help step-by-step, to get a nice looking informative footer for your page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be challenging to set-up a footer if you never tried it before. This guide will help step-by-step, to get a nice looking and informative footer for your website.
```

In this guide you will be introduced, to some of the features you can add to your footer, namely Navigation. Opening Hours, Contact, and Social Links.

> You can set the theme for your footer by navigating to the "Settings" node, Then click the "Theme". From there you scroll down to you reach "Footer" here you can choose between black theme or white theme, and you can change the container width.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the theme for your footer by navigating to the "Theme" settings node under "Settings" in the Content section. Here you'll find a "Footer" group, where you can choose between dark or light theme, and you can change the container width.
```

This is how the footer should look after you have gone through the guide:

![The finished footer](images/Footer-example.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## The Footer

```

Start by doing the following:

> 1. Go to the backoffice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the Umbraco Backoffice
```

> 2. Click your home node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click your home node - the first item in the Content tree
```

> 3. In the workspace scroll to the bottom and find the section called footer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the workspace scroll to the bottom and find the group called Footer
```

> 4. In the field saying “Footer Columns” click “Add Content” this will give you 7 options of content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the field saying “Footer Columns” click “Add Content” which will give you 7 options for content to add
```

## [Navigation](../../Uno-pedia/Content-Types/Site-Start/Custom-Navigation/index.md)

> Let’s start by adding Navigation, pick "Navigation" on the list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s start by adding Navigation.
```

- Click Navigation in the list
- Set column width to 25% as 100% would be the entire width of the page.
- Choose a heading for your navigation list, let’s call it links for now.

> - Next got to the field called “Links” and select “Add” then a window pops out on the right -hand side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Next go to the field called “Links” and select “Add” - a window pops out on the right-hand side.
```

> - Navigate to the part of the window that says “ Link to page” if this is a clean install you will have the options of Unicorn Hotel or Global Content, If you have created a page you can select that one, however, if that is not the case lets create a link to Unicorn Hotel, we do that by clicking the text, that will mark the field with a green checkmark, finalize by clicking submit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Navigate to the part of the window that says “ Link to page”, where you will see your entire Content tree.
- Choose an item from the tree - in this case, we'll choose "Unicorn Hotel"
- Click "Submit" to add the link
```

> - Next, we get the option to select children, which is another layer of links. we won't need this for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Next, we get the option to select children, which is another layer of links. We won't need this for now.
```

- The final button here is "Only Render Children" which would make the node only display links to the child pages, instead of the selected one

     ![The finished footer](images/Navigatio-Footer.png)

## [Opening Hours](../../Uno-pedia/Widgets/Opening-hours/index.md)

Now we click "Add content" again. To add your opening hours click "Opening Hours"

- Choose "Column Width" 25%.
- Align Content Center.
- Choose a Heading.
- Under opening hours click "Add Content".
- Write down your open days like so: Mon-Fri
- Fill in the time slots fx 08:00-20:00

    ![The finished footer](images/Opening-Hours-Footer.png)

## [Contact](../../Uno-pedia/Widgets/Contact/index.md)

> The next step is to add Contact to your footer to do this by Clicking "Add Content" then Choose "Contact".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to add Contact to your footer.
```

> - Set the "Column Width" to 25%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click "Add Content" and choose "Contact"
- Set the "Column Width" to 25%.
```

- Choose Align "Left".
- The Heading could be Contact us.
- Then you can add your Address in the text field.
- The next option is to add your phone number
- Lastly is the option to add your email.

    ![The finished footer](images/Contact-Footer.png)

## [Social Links](../../Uno-pedia/Widgets/Social-links/index.md)

>  Click "Add content".

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

 For our final piece of content in the footer choose "Social Links".

> - Set "Column Width" to 25%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click "Add content"
- Set "Column Width" to 25%.
```

- Align Content Left
- Heading could be something like "Find us at:"
- Add the URLs for your Social media pages

    ![The finished footer](images/Social-Links-Footer.png)

> The last option is to add some bottom text the could be a copyright text or something along those lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last option is to add some bottom text. This could be a copyright text or something along those lines.
```
